---
layout: post
title: "Git Gud"
date: "2020-01-07"
last_modified_at: null
pin: false
---

Today I am back on Linux Academy. I finished all the videos in the *Source Control with Git* course, minus the GitLab section. I am out of free credits to take the labs, but I will return to them when I get my Linux Academy subscription. Below are some useful commands I learnt from today: 

- `git tag`: Used to label points in a repository's history which are considered important. It's typically used to signify releases.

- `git rebase`: This was a big one for me, I've heard of rebase before but didn't know what it meant. [This article](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/merging-vs-rebasing) via Atlassian outlines the differences between merge and rebase very well. 

- `git revert HEAD`: This will undo the last commit that was created. It doesn't go back in time per se but creates a new commit with information from the previous commit. Suffixing the command with a tilde (~) and a number, specifies how far back in the commit history to go. For example, `git revert HEAD~2` would go back 2 commits.

- `git diff`: Shows the difference between two points in the git commit history. A summarised version of this can be achieved using the `--summary` option.

- `git gc`: This refers to git's garbage collection. This is responsible for removing objects from the database which can no longer be accessed. Git does its own garbage collection after a while, so I don't think this is something I'll use often but it's still worth noting.

- `git log`: I thought this was very powerful. The `--graph` option shows the git history in a nice visual format. The `--since` option shows the git history since a period of time, for example `git log --since="2 hours ago"`. The `-S` option allows you to search via a phrase in the history of commit messages.

After this course I feel more confident working with git in the command line. Also, certain terminology like rebase, stash, and HEAD now makes more sense. For developing this blog, I am now going to use git in the command line and use a separate branch for development work.