---
layout: post
title: "Vim!"
date: "2020-01-13"
last_modified_at: null
pin: false
---

Today was my first look at Vim and I can see why it is so powerful. I'll probably add a course on Vim at some point but for the time being I don't want to get too side-tracked. The rest of today's focus was a mix of scripting, hardware, and networking.

- Shell scripting:

  - `#!/bin/bash`: Defines the interpreter to be used by the shell script and is placed at the top of the script file.

  - `PATH=$PATH:<directory>`: Appends a new directory to the PATH variable. This allows you to run scripts stored in this directory regardless of your current working directory.

  - `chmod +x <script>`: Sets permissions for a script to be executable.

  - `head/tail -n 100`: Outputs the first (head) or the last (tail) 100 lines of a file. Without the `n` option, this command will output the first/last 10 lines.

- Hardware and logging:

  - `free -h`: Shows the RAM usage, the `-h` option denotes a human readable format.

  - `lscpu`: Displays CPU information.

  - `uname -r`: Displays the kernel version.

  - `top`: Shows every running process and their associated ID. These processes are stored in folders via a 'virtual file system' at `/proc/`.

  - `dmesg`: Prints out a message buffer for the kernel. Typically used for troubleshooting hardware issues.

  - `journalctl`: Used in Fedora to display messages in the system journal.

  - `ps -u <user> | wc -l`: Shows how many processes are running as a given user.

- Networking:

  - `host`: Translates hostname into IP address.

  - `/etc/hosts/`: The hosts file, used for statically mapping IP addresses to hostnames.

  - `dig`: Similar to `host` but it contains additional functionality.

  - `ip addr`: Like `ipconfig` on Windows. This is a replacement for the `ifconfig` command which is now considered obsolete.

  - `ss`: Displays various network statistics. This is a replacement for `netstat`.

  - `ip route show`: Displays the routing table, which also contains the gateway.

  - `cat /etc/resolv.conf | grep nameserver`: Determines the DNS server and outputs it to the console.