---
layout: "post"
title: "My Favourite Tools and Technologies"
date: "2022-04-26"
last_modified_at: "2022-05-03"
pin: "true"
hide: "false"
---

These are technologies I have used that I _also_ enjoy working with. This is
somewhat inspired by the Stack Overflow Developer
Survey: <https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2021>.

Originally, I came up with a big list of tools and technologies I have used and
liked. Then from that, I tried to get it down to less than a dozen or so. My
selections are arbitrary and based purely on feeling.

There are a lot of things I haven't used before that I would like to use. So
some of these items on the list might be dethroned in the future. Also, this
isn't an authoritative list, it is all personal preference. ðŸ™‚

## 1. Python

I like Python for the very reasons it is popular. Such as its simple syntax,
readability, support, and versatility. I am a bit of a sucker for _The Zen of
Python_ as well.

I also have experience using Java, JavaScript, and a tiny bit of C#. And
although it isn't an apples to apples comparison, I find Python the most
pleasurable to work with. There are some other languages I would like to try in
the future though. Like WASM with Rust or a functional language like Clojure or
maybe even Go.

## 2. Linux

There isn't much to say here that hasn't already been said a hundred times.
Personally though, I find Linux fascinating on a technical level.

On top of Linux, Bash deserves a special mention. In terms of scripting and
administration tasks, it is similar to Python in the sense of how versatile it
is. There is still a lot I have to learn about Bash, but it continues to come in
handy for me with deployment pipelines and using Linux machines.

## 3. Containers

Like Linux, there isn't much to say that hasn't already been said. Containers
are also something I find fascinating on a technical level. Understanding
containers has helped me understand Linux better and vice-versa.

Also, I am not particularly opinionated on any container orchestrator, as I have
only used Kubernetes.

## 4. FastAPI

FastAPI has great documentation and is very intuitive. It feels like the "web
framework built for human beings." I can do stuff in FastAPI at a fraction of
the time it would have taken me to do it in Spring. Which might be more to do
with differences between Python and Java than any particular framework.
Regardless, it is an awesome framework.

## 5. Git

A must-have for any developer. Even if I have no plans of hosting my code on
anything or deploying it anywhere. I still make a Git repo to keep track of my
work and organise it.

## 6. Redis

Using Redis as a form of quick storage has saved me many times. Running it as a
container makes it even easier. It just works. On the other-hand, as for NoSQL
and relational databases, I don't have much of a preference for any particular
one.

## 7. HTML/CSS

I believe my first foray into coding was via Java. But my second was making
websites with HTML and CSS. So I guess it has a special place in my heart.

I don't have much experience with any of the frontend libraries. But I think I
want to learn some more frontend stuff soon, as I have an app or two I would
like to make. Regardless, I always enjoy hacking together little websites,
writing my own CSS, trying to follow best practices for my HTML, etc.

My knowledge of HTML/CSS has come in handy many times, and I imagine it will
continue to do so in the future.

## 8. GitHub

Following on from Git, my repository hosting of choice is GitHub. I also use
GitHub Container Registry, Issues, Actions, and Dependabot alerts. Their
products are all very low friction. So I can spend more time worrying about my
code instead of wrangling a GUI.

## 9. PyCharm

I know VSCode is a popular alternative, but I have been using PyCharm for as
long as I have been writing Python. Every time I try VSCode, I quickly come back
to PyCharm (or other JetBrains IDEs). Everything just works, I don't have to
fiddle around with a dozen different plugins, it is well-made software, and I am
a happy paying customer.

## 10. Photoshop

This is a bit of a different one. But like with HTML/CSS, having a bit of
knowledge in Photoshop has come in handy many times. I remember leaning on it a
lot in high school and university with some assignments. Since then, I have used
it to modify images used in web design projects and to fix up personal photos.

## Honourable Mentions

Below you will find a few others things I like, in no particular order:

- Kubernetes
- Helm
- Trivy
- Vagrant
- Vim
- Black
- Markdown
- Jeykll
