---
layout: post
title: "2020-01-08-TBD"
date: "2020-01-08"
last_modified_at: null
pin: false
---
I managed to complete the *AWS Concepts* course today. This was a fairly simple crash course but allowed me to get a nice overview of the catalogue of what AWS offers. Below are a few notes from today:

- VPC: Virtual Private Cloud. In my time on the service desk, VPC referred to a virtual computer e.g. a VMware Horizon zero client. So initially I assumed in AWSland it meant the same thing. But it refers to your own "carved out" section of AWS where you can store files and computing resources and allow/restrict certain access to them.

- EC2: Elastic Compute Cloud - a computer but on the cloud 😲! I've had a bit of experience using an EC2 to host a WordPress site. Web hosting seems to be a common use for EC2s.

- RDS: Relational Database Service - a database platform used for storing things such as customer account info and as an inventory catalog.

- S3: Simple Storage Service - storage platform for AWS. There is a very high storage limit on S3 that no individual company even comes close to maxing it out. Avoid using EC2 for long-term storage instead use an S3.

[This diagram](aws-architecture.png) (via Linux Academy) outlines how all these pieces could come together.

I have been flying through the courses a bit lately. So I added a few more free courses to do in the meantime before getting my Linux Academy subscription. [Click here]({% post_url 2020-01-05-purpose-of-this-blog/2020-01-05-purpose-of-this-blog %}) to view my course list and progress.